docs: Clarify disabled SDK, and SDK Event Processing (#1621)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/collections/_documentation/development/sdk-dev/unified-api.md

- **integration**: Code that provides middlewares, bindings or hooks into certain frameworks or environments, along with code that inserts those bindings and activates them. Usage for integrations does not follow a common interface.

- **event processors**: Are callbacks that run for every event. They can either return a "new" event which in most cases means just adding data OR return `null` in case the event will be dropped and not sent.

> - **disabled SDK**: Before `init` has been called, or when no client is active,

Reviewer: There are two disabled states: Having no client, or having a client without a transport. One can reach both states by either not calling init, or by calling init with an empty string as DSN.

If you call `init("")` you get breadcrumbs recorded.

Author: > One can reach both states by either not calling init, or by calling init with an empty string as DSN.

as you can see below, the event pipeline should run in this case. IMO its a valid usecase to have no DSN when you are using a custom transport.

Reviewer 2: In Android (/cc @marandaneto )and .NET it's all NoOp until init is called. If init is called with an empty DSN, nothing happens but it sounds it's the only SDK doing that.

Reviewer 3: actually, if you create a `Hub` by yourself with a `null` or `empty` DSN you even get `IllegalArgumentException` on Android.
If you create a `SentryClient` with a `null` or `empty` DSN and no transport is set, its also throwing `IllegalArgumentException`
Only thru the Sentry static class with an empty/null DSN that becomes NoOp for everything on Android.
Yes, it seems to be different than others.

Reviewer 2: `null` IMHO should throw. The spec says empty string.

Throwing on initialization isn't that big deal since it should repro during the app start and during tests, shows the misconfiguration.

Something that is completely against the guideline for any public method **after** the SDK is initialized, which should never throw.

`Hub` and `SentryClient` are much simpler if can only be properly instantiated if a valid DSN is provided. So the guard for `""` happens outside (`Sentry.init` does that). The documentation never made clear that "" as a DSN in any code path should mean empty string and for that  reason that guideline was taken only at the public documented API `Sentry.init`. That said, it was by design.

> - **disabled SDK**: Before `init` has been called, or when no client is active,

Reviewer 4: `when no client is active,` is ambiguous.

What we have is a "current hub" and each hub has a stack of clients (and scopes).

Here `active` probably refers to `no client on the top of the hub stack`, though maybe we never talk about hub stacks.

Author: How would you phrase that ideally? since all the APIs essentially end up at a Hub, which may not have an active Client.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **disabled SDK**: Before `init` has been called or when the current hub has no client
```

?

Perhaps not ideal yet...

- **integration**: Code that provides middlewares, bindings or hooks into certain frameworks or environments, along with code that inserts those bindings and activates them. Usage for integrations does not follow a common interface.

- **event processors**: Callbacks that run for every event.  

>   They can either return a "new" event, which in most cases means just adding

Reviewer 5: suggest using italics for _new_ here rather than quotes.

Can we make this more clear? The phrase "which in most cases means just adding data" suggests that other cases exist. 

Suggest "These either return a _new_ event or `null`. New events typically add data. `Null` is discarded and does not process further."

Author: I actually changed this completely, as the *new* was a bit misleading.
You return the event that you get after modifications (move semantics).
While it is technically possible to create a *completely new* event, I don’t think that is a valid usecase actually.

  data OR return `null` in which case the event will be discarded and not
  processed further.

  See [Event Pipeline](#event-pipeline) for more information.

- **disabled SDK**: Most of the SDK functionality depends on a

>   configured and active Client.

Reviewer 5: lower case for client

  Sentry considers the client active when it has a *transport*.
  Otherwise, the client is inactive, and the SDK is considered "disabled".

>   This means that certain callbacks, such as `configure_scope` or

Reviewer 5: Suggest "When a client is inactive and the SDK is considered disabled, certain callbacks, such as `configure_scope` or *event processors*, may not be invoked. As a result, breadcrumbs are not recorded.

- `capture_message(message, level)`: Reports a message. The level can be optional in language with default parameters in which case it should default to `info`.

> - `add_breadcrumb(crumb)`: Adds a new breadcrumb to the scope. If the total number of breadcrumbs exceeds the `max_breadcrumbs` setting, the oldest breadcrumb should be removed in turn. This works like the Hub api with regards to what `crumb` can be. The breadcrumb is ignored if the SDK is disabled.

Reviewer 6: > The breadcrumb is ignored if the SDK is disabled.
Do we really want to define it that strictly?
Why wouldn't we want that even if disabled it will keep the breadcrumbs?

Author: While I don’t like making public API based on implementation details in general, here, if we don’t have a client, we don’t have a `max_breadcrumbs` setting. So what should we do in that case? Maybe define a global limit somewhere?

Also, both this and `configure_scope` live on the scope. So we should skip both, to at least be consistent.

Reviewer 3: `max_breadcrumbs` lives on SentryOptions though.

> - `add_breadcrumb(crumb)`: Adds a new breadcrumb to the scope. If the total number of breadcrumbs exceeds the `max_breadcrumbs` setting, the oldest breadcrumb should be removed in turn. This works like the Hub api with regards to what `crumb` can be. The breadcrumb is ignored if the SDK is disabled.

Reviewer 2: @HazAT better like this? It's just a suggestion (to make it cheaper):

```suggestion
- `add_breadcrumb(crumb)`: Adds a new breadcrumb to the scope. If the total number of breadcrumbs exceeds the `max_breadcrumbs` setting, the oldest breadcrumb should be removed in turn. This works like the Hub api with regards to what `crumb` can be. The breadcrumb may ignored if the SDK is disabled.
```

A scope holds data that should implicitly be sent with Sentry events. It can hold context data, extra parameters, level overrides, fingerprints etc.

The user can modify the current scope (to set extra, tags, current user) through the global function `configure_scope`.  `configure_scope` takes a callback function to which it passes the current scope.
If the SDK is disabled, Sentry may not invoke the callback.

> Here's an example from another place in the docs:

Reviewer 4: This is strange. Why say "this is from another place"?

Here's an example from another place in the docs:

```javascript
Sentry.configureScope(function(scope) {
  scope.setExtra("character_name", "Mighty Fighter");
});
Sentry.configureScope(scope =>
  scope.setExtra("character_name", "Mighty Fighter"));
```

> Why not just have a `get_current_scope()` function instead of this indirection?  If the SDK is disabled (e.g. by not providing a DSN), modifying a scope is pointless because there will never be any events to send. In that situation `configure_scope` may choose not to call the callback.  This is also used to more efficiently flush out scope changes in some languages.  When a `with` statement is used that always executes the scope needs to be a dummy scope object.  It also helps to emphasize that under normal circumstances we do not want the user the do the scope handling.

Reviewer 4: Why remove this completely? In general it is good to have insights on why certain APIs even exist.

});
```

> Why not just have a `get_current_scope()` function instead of this indirection?  If the SDK is disabled, modifying a scope is pointless because there will never be any events to send. In that situation `configure_scope` may choose not to call the callback.  This is also used to more efficiently flush out scope changes in some languages.  When a `with` statement is used that always executes the scope needs to be a dummy scope object.  It also helps to emphasize that under normal circumstances we do not want the user the do the scope handling.

Reviewer 4: This paragraph, even before change, sounds like a long rant.

Going on a sidetrack re: writing style, would be good to have @MimiDumpling's/ @PeloWriter's take on whether we want to ask questions like this, or write it differently simply to provide the answer.

Reviewer 2: IHMO we could remove this paragraph altogether.
Content like this could be a separate document for motivations of the current API or, FAQ:

Q: Why not expose the current scope?
A: The lifetime is controlled via Push/Pop and holding the reference by the user could lead to a use after free.

- `scope.add_error_processor(processor)` (optional): Registers an error processor function.  It takes an event and exception object and returns a new event or `None` to drop it.  This can be used to extract additional information out of an exception object that the SDK cannot extract itself.

> - `scope.clear()`: Resets a scope to default values however keeping all 

Reviewer 5: This is confusing, perhaps: "Resets a scope to default values while keeping registered event processors, which does not affect child or parent scopes."

original exception object.  Not all SDKs are required to provide this.  The
parameter however is reserved for this purpose.

## Event Pipeline

Any event that is captured by `capture_event` is processed in the following
order and can be discarded at any of the stages, at which point no further
processing happens.

> 1. If the SDK is disabled or there is no active client, the event is discarded

Reviewer 4: Given the definition of `disabled SDK` above, isn't `SDK is disabled or there is no active client` redundant?

Reviewer 3: agreed

   right away. The client is active if it has a valid *transport* configured.
2. The client does event sampling based on the configured sample rate.
   Events will be discarded randomly, according to the sample rate.

> 3. The scope is applied, using `apply_to_event`. The scopes *event processors*

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. The scope is applied, using `apply_to_event`. The scope's *event processors*
```

   are invoked in order and can possibly discard the event.
4. The *before-send* hook is invoked, which can also discard the event.
5. The event is passed to the configured transport. The transport can discard

>    the event in case it has no valid DSN, or due to rate limiting.

Reviewer 4: Well, rate limiting is a server concern.

The more general thing to say is that "The default transport does not retry to send events that are not accepted by the server" (and that can be 4xx, 5xx responses from the server).

WDYT

Author: hm… at least for native, the transport eagerly discards anything in the `retry-after` window.

Reviewer 3: the server can also discard events down the pipeline even if it returned 200, 200 just means it enqueued right

>    the event in case it has no valid DSN, or due to rate limiting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   the event in case it has no valid DSN, max queued items have been reached, or due to rate limiting.
```

original exception object.  Not all SDKs are required to provide this.  The
parameter however is reserved for this purpose.

## Event Pipeline

Any event that is captured by `capture_event` is processed in the following
order and can be discarded at any of the stages, at which point no further
processing happens.

1. If the SDK is disabled, the event is discarded right away.
2. The client does event sampling based on the configured sample rate.
   Events will be discarded randomly, according to the sample rate.
3. The scope is applied, using `apply_to_event`. The scope’s *event processors*
   are invoked in order and can possibly discard the event.
4. The *before-send* hook is invoked, which can also discard the event.
5. The event is passed to the configured transport. The transport can discard

>    the event in case it has no valid DSN, its internal queue is full,

Author: do you really separate enumeration items by a full stop?

>    the event in case it has no valid DSN, its internal queue is full,

Reviewer 7: Ah! Sorry. That's my mistake. I thought this was a run on sentence. The original version is fine. Thanks!

original exception object.  Not all SDKs are required to provide this.  The
parameter however is reserved for this purpose.

## Event Pipeline

> Any event that is captured by `capture_event` is processed in the following

Reviewer 5: Strictly editorial, to tighten up the language: "An event captured by `capture_event` processes in the following order: **Note:** The event can be discarded at any of these stages, at which point it is no longer processed."

Author: TBH, I think active voice is not the right thing here. The event does not process itself ;-)

order and can be discarded at any of the stages, at which point no further
processing happens.

1. If the SDK is disabled, Sentry discards the event right away.

> 2. The client does event sampling based on the configured sample rate.

Reviewer 5: The client samples as defined by the configured sample rate.

   Events will be discarded randomly, according to the sample rate.

> 3. The scope is applied, using `apply_to_event`. The scope’s *event processors*

Reviewer 5: Given the note about discarding events at any stage, suggest removing the phrase "...and can possibly discard the event."

   are invoked in order and can possibly discard the event.

> 4. Sentry invokes the *before-send* hook, which can also discard the event.

Reviewer 5: Suggest removing "...which can also discard the event" given the note at the start of this list.

5. Sentry passes the event to the configured transport.

>    The transport can discard the event if it does no have valid DSN; its

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   The transport can discard the event if it does not have a valid DSN; its
```

> 5. Sentry passes the event to the configured transport. The transport can discard

Reviewer 5: Mild rephrase suggestion for clarity: "The transport can discard the event if it does not have a valid DSN; its internal queue is full; or due to rate limiting, as requested by the server."
